#=============================================================================
#         FILE:  sc.conf.pod
#  DESCRIPTION:  Source for sc.conf(5) manpage
#       AUTHOR:  Stanislav Kruchinin, <stanislav.krucinin@gmail.com>
#=============================================================================


=head1 NAME

B<sc.conf> - configuration file for sc(8).

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The F<sc.conf> file is parsed using the C<AppConfig> module and has a simple
C<variable = value> form.
Expansion for internal and environment variables is enabled (see AppConfig(3)
for details).
The file may contain extra tabs and newlines for formatting.
Comments begin with the B<#> character and end at the end of line, like in
shell or Perl scripts.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<tc>

Location of tc(8) executable.

=item B<out_if>, B<in_if>

Names of the interfaces that will be used for shaping of output and input
traffic, respectively.
Possible values: interface name or "disable" keyword, which disables rule
generation.

=item B<limit_method>

Rate limiting method. The B<hybrid> method uses shaping for download and
policing for upload, and all the rules are created on the B<in_if> interface.
This is suitable, when NAT is performed on the outbound interface.

Possible values: B<shaping>, B<policing>, B<hybrid>.

Default value: B<shaping>.

=item B<debug>

Debug modes.

Possible values:

=over

=item B<0>

no debug (default value),

=item B<1>

print command lines with nonzero return values,

=item B<2>

print all command lines without execution.

=back

Default value: B<0>.

=item B<verbose>

When enabled, turns on verbose messages and disables piping of tc(8) rules.

Possible values:

=over

=item B<0>

no verbose messages (default)

=item B<1>

enable verbose messages (i.e. for results of `sync' command)

=item B<2>

disable batch loading of rules for tc(8)

=item B<3>

do B<1> + B<2>

=back

Default value: B<0>.

=item B<quiet>

Suppress output. Does not affect messages caused by C<verbose> flag.

Possible values: boolean.

Default value: B<0>.

=item B<colored>

Colorize output using ANSI escape sequences.
Autodetection of non-tty handles is supported.

Possible values: boolean.

Default value: B<1>.

=item B<joint>

Perform B<add>, B<change> and B<delete> operations on rules and database with
a single command.

=item B<network>

This variable contains the list of networks for classid calculation.
These networks must cover all IPs which you are going to use in shaping rules.

Possible values: a list of networks with masks from 16 to 31.

Total number of hosts in the specified networks should not exceed the maximum
number of child classes: 65533 (from 2 to fffd, because fffe is reserved for
default class, and ffff is for ingress policer).

Default value: B<10.0.0.0/16>.

=item B<filter_network>

Network list for hashing filters generation.
To improve the classification performance you may specify here a summarized
network just like in case of supernetting (route aggregation).
For example, if you have the following networks

	network = 10.0.0.0/20 10.0.253.0/24 10.0.254.0/24

you should specify a single 10.0.0.0/16 network to classify traffic
by a single hashing filter

	filter_network = 10.0.0.0/16

Possible values: a list of networks with mask from 16 to 31, that includes the
networks specified in B<network> parameter.

Default value: same as B<network> parameter.

=item B<default_policy>

Default traffic policy for shaper.

Possible values: B<block-all>, B<block> or B<pass>.
   block-all = block all traffic including shaper itself
   block = block all IP's, except for shaper's interfaces (default)
   pass = allow all traffic

Default value: B<block>.

=item B<bypass_int>

List of internal networks and IPs, whose traffic is transmitted without
shaping.

Possible values: space-separated list of networks with masks from 16 to 32.

Default value: B<empty>.

=item B<bypass_ext>

List of external networks and IPs, whose traffic is transmitted without
shaping.

Possible values: space-separated list of networks with masks from 16 to 32.

Default value: B<empty>.

=item B<policer_burst_ratio>

Ratio between the size of policer buffer size and bandwidth rate.

Possible values: floating-point number.

Default value: B<0.2>.

=item B<quantum>

Amount of bytes a stream is allowed to dequeue before the next queue gets a
turn.

Possible values: integer numbers >= MTU of the interface.

Default value: B<1500>.

=item B<rate_unit>

Default rate unit.

Possible values: see sc(8) or tc(8) manpage for list of units.

Default value: B<kibit>.

=item B<rate_ratio>

Ratio between bandwidth rates in rules and in the database.
  rule_rate = db_rate * rate_ratio

This coefficient is used only for B<load> and B<sync> commands.

Possible values: floating-point number.

Default value: B<1.0>.

=item B<root_qdisc>

Root queueing discipline.

Possible values: B<htb> or B<hfsc>.

Default value: B<htb>.

=item B<leaf_qdisc>

Leaf queueing discipline with parameters.
This string will be used as a tail of corresponding C<tc qdisc ...> command
line.

Possible values: all classless qdiscs supported by tc(8).

Default value: B<pfifo limit 100>.

=item B<db_host>

Database host.

Possible values: IP-address or domain name.

Default value: B<127.0.0.1>.

=item B<db_driver>

Database driver.

Possible values: all database drivers supported by Perl DBI module.
See output of C<sc help> command for the list of available drivers.

Default value: B<SQLite>.

=item B<db_user>

Username to use when connecting to a database.

Possible values: depends on the database server.

Default value: B<user>.

=item B<db_pass>

The password to use when connecting to a database. Remember that specifying a
password on the command line is insecure.

Possible values: arbitrary string.

Default value: B<password>.

=item B<db_name>

Database name to use.

Possible values: arbibrary string (should be a valid filename in case of
SQLite driver).

Default value: B<sc.db>.

=item B<Database queries>

=over 16

=item B<create>

Create table with C<ip> and C<rate> columns.

=item B<load>

Select all data from table.

=item B<list>

Select data for one IP.

=item B<add>

add a new entry.

=item B<del>

delete an existing entry.

=item B<change>

modify an existing entry.

=back

=item B<Syslog options>

=over 16

=item B<enable>

Output errors and warnings to syslog.

Possible values: boolean.

Default value: B<1>.

=item B<options>

Possible values (comma-separated):

=over 12

=item B<ndelay>

open the connection immediately

=item B<nofatal>

just emit warnings instead of dying if the connection to syslog can't be
established

=item B<perror>

write the message to standard error output as well to the syslog

=item B<pid>

include PID with each message

=back

Default value: B<<empty string>>.

=item B<facility>

Possible values: see Sys::Syslog(3), section C<Facilities>.

Default value: B<user>.

=back

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

sc(8), tc(8), tc-htb(8), tc-hfsc(8), tc-u32(8), tc-pfifo(8),
AppConfig(3), Sys::Syslog(3).
http://lartc.org/howto/lartc.adv-filter.hashing.html,
http://ace-host.stuart.id.au/russell/files/tc/doc/cls_u32.txt.

=head1 AUTHOR

Stanislav Kruchinin <stanislav.kruchinin@gmail.com>

=cut

